---
layout: post
title :  "passive apartment building horn&#237; kosov"
thumbnail_columns: 5
thumbnail_url: '/images/byt_hk_01_thumb.jpg'
images: [
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_01.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_01_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_02.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_02_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_03.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_03_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_04.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_04_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_05.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_05_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_06.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_06_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_07.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_07_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_08.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_08_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_09.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_09_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
{ 'url' : '/images/byt_hk_10.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/byt_hk_10_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'wooden passive house' },
]
---

<p>ARCHITECTURE</p>
<p>Three storey building apartment is designed as a connection to two storey buildings and seven storey building. It is designed as two masses - an apartment part and a staircase part. In the design, a thickness of the passive wodden wall was considered and windowsills are used for sitting in interior. A shape of windows is dependent on using windowsills in interior. Living rooms are located to the West and South.</p>

<p>CONSTRUCTION</p>
<p>The apartment building is designed as a wooden house. Separated staircase is made of reinforced concrete (stairs) and constructions of steel and glass. Vertical structures of the apartments are walls of cross pinned components and wooden poles. Horizontal structures are made of girders and glued laminated panels lying on them. Floors in the apartments are designed as a grate system and OSBs because of the bigger strenght. Partitions are double plasterboard, inside of them there are heating distribution and electrical instalations. The insulation is designed formaldehyde-free: fiberglass.</p>

<p>BUILDING SERVICES</p>
<p>In the building central heating is generated by a heat pump with deep borehole. There is a local air handling unit with heat recovery in front of the each apartement. On the south faÇade there are photovoltaic panels wich are also used as blinds. Photovoltaics is also on the roof of garages. Slope of photovoltaic panels is 35° because of optimal use of the solar energy. Eletric energy proudced by photovoltaic panles is used to the pump heat or is processed in the electric network. The apartment heating is mostly supplied by convectors, in bathrooms there is underfloor heating. On the north faÇade there is a vertical garden which contributes to better heat balance of the building.</p>

<p>ENERGY BALANCE</p>
<p>Average U-unit of the building envelope is 0,24 W/m²K.
Total specific heat for heating is 11 kW/m²a.</p>
