---
layout: post
title :  "family house in jihlava"
thumbnail_columns: 3
thumbnail_url: '/images/newRD_hk_001.jpg'
images: [
{ 'url' : '/images/newRD_hk_001.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/newRD_hk_001_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'family house for a big family' },
{ 'url' : '/images/newRD_hk_02.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/newRD_hk_02_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'family house for a big family' },
{ 'url' : '/images/newRD_hk_03.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/newRD_hk_03_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'family house for a big family' },
{ 'url' : '/images/newRD_hk_04.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/newRD_hk_04_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'site plan' },
{ 'url' : '/images/newRD_hk_05.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/newRD_hk_05_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'ground floor' },
{ 'url' : '/images/newRD_hk_06.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/newRD_hk_06_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'first floor' },
{ 'url' : '/images/newRD_hk_07.jpg', 'thumb_url' : '/images/newRD_hk_07_thumb.jpg', 'title' : 'section' },
]
---

<p><b>Pragmatic school and kindergarten in Bhutan</b></p>

<p><b>(2013, CTU)</b></p>

<p><i>Supervisor: Ing. Jan Tilinger PhD.</i><p>

<p>Literacy of the Bhutan Kingdom is 42% therefore it is one of the least literate country in the world. There is no compulsory school attendance, most people are farmers. Information had been transmited orally for many centuries, so that there aren´t any libraries in Bhutan. The goal of this project was to choose a land which would be useful because of its location, search for local climate, think through material and technical options and design a school based on bhutanesse architecture. Its structural and technical solution was also required.</p>

<p>Pragmatic school and kindergarten was designed on the chosen land near a little town Kurjey and two other villages. It contains an auditorium and a little library so that adults could take courses too. In pragmatic school children become acquaintidet with plants and animals and because of that they get theoretical knowledge faster. Other assumed education is reading, Maths and foreign language. Kindergarten should teach children about communication to each other, help them in socialization and prepare them to primary education and regular regime.</p>

<p>There are 3 classrooms of pragmatic school for 20 pupils + 1 classroom of kindergarten for 15 children in the entry level of the school. There are also rooms as work room, library, room for teachers and tools and in the middle of the building there is an atrium with a pump. Latrines are separated from the main building and they are connected to school with a wodden bridge. On the ground floor there are house animals and space for tool, maintenance and feeding.</p>

<p>Construction of the building is combined system - walls of unfired clay and massive wooden columns made of big trees from Himalayan woods. The roof is designed as tree with wooden thatch. Above atrium there is a roof of Makrolon which permeables solar radiation (in this part of world solar radiation falls upright almost all day) and it heats a space of atrium naturally. Other used materials are bamboo and straw - bamboo is the outer part of the Eastern wall, bamboo is also used for floor or matting filled in by straw as a thermal insultaion.</p>

<p>Heating is produced by stoves located in every classroom, flue gas is drained by chimneys which are in the rooms for teachers and also heats that rooms.Thank to solar radiation falling through transparent construction the atrium is heated. In this area there are more sunny days in winter than in summer - in summer there is precipitation up to 350 mm/month because of the monsons. Electric energy is generated by non-dam turbine located in the river (50 m from the school). As for lighting there are LED stripes designed above working/playing area. In atrium there is a pump which is a source of water. Waste water, not chemically damaged, is leaded by bamboo pipe to animal pens and then drained by trough outside the building.</p>

<p>Drain of the roof is natural, there is designed an overlap of the roof 1,5 m. Under the overlap there is a place for wood needed for heating.</p>
